Joint Executive Council exit meeting; June 26, 2017: 8:30 am - 9:45am, Portland, Oregon
  Attended by representatives of: ASN, SSE, SSB, and the Joint Meeting Committee
    scribe: Dean Adams

1: 2021 Location 
 -Discussion and vote on locations: Albuquerque, Athens, GA, and San Juan
 -1st place votes: Albuquerque (14), Athens/SJ 1 each
  -2nd place votes: Athens (13), SJ (1)

  -2021: Albuquerque, if not doable, then proceed to Athens, GA
  -2022: Stage for Athens GA

2: JC: coordination of diversity activities: 
  -Diversity activities organized by grad student reps, and done more separately among societies (ASN was in charge this year with some additional support)
  -Not ideal, as it is a complex event and all societies participate. 
 -A joint-committee just formed, so no need to adjust structure; however more coordination required

*JC decided that each society designate member from that society for coordination of these events

3: Advocacy responses: 
 -Societies jointly writing statements and responses to societal issues; works fairly well, but some coordination issues this spring due to lack of contact. 
 -Also a need for statement drafters, not just signatories (which should probably be Presidents on behalf of the societies)
 *Societies will have policy committee/email and contacts for other officers (e.g., Pres)
 **JC decided these will be circulated among societies to enhance communication for joint statements and other joint business

4: DDIGs: 
 -JC concerned that w are getting conflicting stories from NSF as to reasons for elimination: money now allocated elsewhere, workload, or give us ideas; they want something completely blown away. 
  -like a catalysis grant for leadership growth. 
  -Maren will put forth proposal to NSF; has drafted white paper.

 -Unknowns
  -1: need to know what AIBS can/can't do relative to what NSF will allow: NOT completely closed
  -2: explore option of block grant to some agency to disperse funds: challenging to find entity to do that
  -3: NEW: openness to have proposal to pitch completely different program; encouragement. 
  -4: Seems that very high ups in NSF want something new to pitch up the chain that 

 -not clear what this new program would solve problem, if workload was the issue. 
 -Lengthy discussion here...

 -New option: use SGERs in some way: e.g., if grad student collaborate on inter-institution SGER; 
 -Could have society-sponsored mixer for student to identify collaborations (could do at summer meeting)
   -PIs could be the PI on grant for students, like DDIGs were; enhances networking & collaboration skills
 -training/networking: could be topic for diversity lunch...

Summary: most viable options:
  1: collaborative grant 
  2: AIBS running is possible (need more info)
  3: some center-type institution devoted to grad research and leadership
  4: create education-type grant to be run by different division (would be evaluated for education, not research values: would really change it)
  5: inter-institutional training grant

  6: NSF suggests universities/societies supply funds and coordinate (but no way to convince univ. administration...)

Meeting adjourned at 9:45 am



