Joint Executive Council meeting; June 23, 2017: 8:30 am - 12:45 pm, Portland, Oregon
  Attended by representatives of: NSF, ASN, SSE, SSB, and the Joint Meeting Committee
    scribe: Dean Adams

1: NSF update (apart from DDIG): Paula Mabee, George Gilchrist, Katerina Ditmar, Leslie Rissler, Sam Scheiner
 -Uncertain times for NSF; they are given a number to plan for long before budget finalized
 -Goal is to preserve core programs, and try to maintain balance of E&E
 -Budget flat over 10 years, no change in staff: 
 -Twice the number of proposals, but 1/2 PIs funded relative to a decade ago; 
 -Support staff very overloaded 
 -ABT report summary (DEB and IOS) will be finalized and distributed soon 
    -Outcomes: everyone pretty much hates the 1 deadline/year
    -Preproposal been successful in decreasing community workload, but NOT NSF workload
    -Mixed opinion on whether preproposals are a good thing: panels emphasize exciting science, and much of that is interdisciplinary, but this potentially at odds with preproposals, which could tend to silo science into more focused questions
 -Rolling deadline programs experience significant decrease in submissions; Biology considering this for future
 -Full proposals invited, due early August
 -Returned discussion to uncertainty: typically NSF planning 1-2 years out, but the current Washington uncertainty has trickled down to rest of govt.; hard to make decisions near to longer term
    -NSF planning for cuts: must decide to cut one important thing over another important thing; some clarification on budget and distinction between staff budget and program funding cuts; 
    -Federal personnel cuts at NSF independent of final federal budget, and will occur (memo from Off. Mgmt Budget)
    -Personnel cuts in proportion to size of agency; this will affect NSF's operations going forward
 -NSF offices moving to new location: expect server outages June 30 - July 5 (at a minimum)
   -DEB move planned for Sept 13

 -DISCUSSION on content of grants or underrepresented groups being affected?  No. 
  - Science content: hot-button words removed/replaced in title/abstracts
  - Reminder that these go to state representatives, so take them seriously 
  - Questions on NEON's effect on budget? NEON's operation and management phase nearly finished

2: Joint Meeting Updates: Howard Rundle
 -Howard and Mitch Cruzan now share JMC organization, along with JMC (1 member each society)
 -SSE EVP helps handle finances, Danielle Wiggins additional support
 -New JMC system working more efficiently and reducing workload; High quality help important for continuity
   -Danielle's contract expires after this year: JMC will discuss this issue soon
 -Proposed revision for JMC to go 4 years out: 3 years not always sufficient time to organize (complications with RFP, etc.)
    -Plan: JMC comes up with possible localities 4 years out; requests RFPs; filters these for viable options; Present viable RFP to joint Exec, joint Exec discusses with society EC, then ranks them; at joint Exec, then get ideas for 5 years out

  -DISCUSSION: possibililty of returning to univesities? Unlikely; meeting too large and few universities allow contracts so far out; comments on web page, removing printed program, etc (on-line program easier to keep current with changes); comment on perception that registration has gone up with Conference Center venues? Past meeting info up online now, and doesn't seem to have changed much; Some folks claim it is cheaper at university? Get the numbers: JMC willing to consider any proposal that comes with actual numbers for comparison

 - DISCUSSION of finances: used prior year's numbers to project next budget: NOTE: 50% of budget food/beverage; postdoc costs close to actual costs; faculty costs subsidize students; Important for community to know that it really isn't an increasing cost, and that attendance has doubled, not shrunk; Suggestion for societies to pass on that message; 

**Joint EC voted to support change in policy (passed unanimously)

 -Video recording of Pres. addresses and YIP will go forward; is a few thousand to do professionally; discussion of adding to web pages, or streaming live in future (no action taken)
 -Future meetings will switch to 16:9 format

2A: Portland update: 
 - 1750 attendees; 33% professional, 20% postdoc, 40% student, similar to last year. 12% not members; are links in registration system to join societies
 -Super Social: 1300 attendees; 990 talks with 50% agreeing to video recording; big push to get talks up rapidly (compensation to Emily for this job); 500 posters
 -Poster invite: discussion that this is great idea and seems successful in enhancing poster profile; should be encouraged in future
 -budget: ~800K, SHIFT: societies no longer charged for extras (e.g., lawyer fees); these are rolled into budget; debt/profit from previous meetings rolled into future budget, so no returns/charges to societies.

2B: 2018: Montpellier: joint with ESEB: Aug 19-22
 -Joint meeting with ESEB every 6 years; rotates North America - Europe
 -2018: follows ESEB format: talks are organized in 'symposia' which must be proposed and accepted. Then talks submit to be included in the accepted symposia; typically many more posters than talks at ESEB (in 2018 about 1000 each)
 -Registration capped at 2500, so register early (ESEB typically maxes)
 -1 Presidential plenary each day: SSE, SSB, ASN, ESES (Pres. award); 
 -Typical joint-meeting award sessions retained as symposia (e.g,. Mayr, etc.) 
  -HOUSING: dorms for students; hotels, AirBNB: PREPARE IN ADVANCE
 -No society mixers, but poster sessions will be on 3 floors; proposed 'Aperol poster sessions' where societies each host a floor
 -Gould lecture not planned
 -Satellite events not offered early, but could be independently organized (not through ESEB); if interested contact someone at U. Montpellier for local contact
 -Fees: a bit cheaper than Joint Meeting in Portland (ESEB subsidizes their meetings considerably; also funds for students, women, child care); student member includes postdoc (1-2 year only)
 -Council meetings will occur as usual
 -Meeting Timeline: 
    -July 1: deadline for symposia call (2 organizers, 1 invited speaker: NOTE: organizers do not speak in symposium)
    -Summer: ESEB scientific committee reviews/ selects symposia, identifies conceptual gaps (to balance program); solicit additionl symposia to fill them
    -November: open call for talk abstracts: Speakers specify 2 possible symposia for talks. 
    -January: talk abstract submission closes
    -February: Talks selected, notices of yeah/neah passed to speakers
    -April: Registration opens

 -DISCUSSION: symposia balance: perhaps have 1 NA and 1 European organizer?, 

2C: 2019: Providence
 -Contract signed, $6K for space rental; hotel blocks are confirmed; dorms planned, not yet confirmed (Univ. won't sign contracts this far out)

2D: 2020: Cleveland
 -Contract signed, supersocial in rock-n-roll HOF; still negotiating hotel/dorm contracts; trying a hosted bar (no tickets: in 2010 actually saved money)

2E: 2021: Possible localities: 
 -strike balance between accessability and locations folks wish to visit
 -SouthWest and SouthEast were previously voted on as options (some locations eliminated due to state discrimination laws and reimbursement: TN, NC, MS, KS, TX)
   -Salt Lake: no proposal so far;  
   -San Diego: old convention center; conference rooms spread out; pricing not great; near large shopping mall, but further from downtown
   -Albuquerque: convention center; relatively inexpensive hotel; dorms ~2 miles on new bus line; attractive local, but could be hot
   -New Orleans: Not in main convention center (we're too small); close to attractions; dorms not nearby; hotels seem reasonable, but TBD; high catering costs; could be hot/humid
   -Athens GA: convention center right size and nice (repurposed old brick buildings); close to dorms; low hotel rates; facility fee high (~55K), but save on catering fees; could be hot/humid; best airfare into Atlanta, they will set up shuttles
   -San Juan: new convention center; close to airport; no univ. nearby for dorms; mix of hotel costs; could be hot/humid; airfare could be high; zika potential issue

 -DISCUSSION:  NOTE: if dorms important, Athens & Albuquerque are the choices (also, recent years dorms always sell out); dorm option important; befits/downsides of all discussed; joint Exec kept 3: Albuquerque, Athens, San Juan

**Joint EC will take to 3 to society EC for their feedback: will vote in joint Exec exit meeting
**Joint EC will also vote on using these for 2021 & 2022

3: Future meetings
 -Where to go next; should go to societies for feedback (see above)

4: JM Daily Schedule
 - schedule full: 8:30 am - 8:00 pm
 -some now skip poster sessions to see local/have dinner at restaurant
 -options: eliminate mixers; adopt 2 hour lunch schedule with posters at lunch (basically a 2 hour block now)

**JMC will consider options

5: Code of Conduct (Andrea Case) 
 -Code of conduct procedure formulated; group of execs from tri-societies formed
 -Submit reports to Andrea if any incidents
 -On site security available if needed

6: DDIG discussion
 -DDIGs strongly valued despite their elimination; was a management decision based on workload and budget
 -DEB workload substantially higher than others in biology, and efficiencies/streamlining not keeping up
 -core programs the priority, so came down to cutting one good program or another good program
 -DDIG represent 2% of budget, but 25% of workload
 -decision to cut DDIG been discussed for a while at NSF retreats and staffing meetings
 -Will NOT come back in current form

  -DISCUSSION: lengthy discussion of process of sharing decision, alternative mechanisms, efficiencies to assist, limit number of resubmissions, 
 -reducing workload by virtual panels, etc. isn't enough to offset workload
 -In the end, need fewer proposals, as huge workload is both pre- and post-review: processing, acceptance, rejection filing, IRB, IACUC compliance, and other regulatory issues; not just the panel review. 

 -Discussion of alternative entity assisting: still issues with federal auditing requirements
 -Limit number submissions per institution, outsource part of administrative load, model similar to BEACON... all discussed at length. 
  -Challenge: Any outsourced entity must meet federal auditing requirements, and be willing to treat each DDIG as a sub-award for model to work (as students would not be employees of that univerisity or entity as in PDocs of other NSF-funded centers)
 -Clarification on BEACON, sub-awards versus reimbursements. 

 -Emphasis on many important roles of DDIGs in development of graduate students beyond the funding itself; many DDIG holders become leaders of their fields
 -Societies are doing this with student awards, but on much smaller scale

 -AIBS and ESA skype/phoned in: Discussion that AIBS could do some of the administrative components for a fee; have done so for other federal agencies. AIBS stands ready to assist; considerable discussion of this option, who pays etc. 

 -Comments from NSF that under this model, it is now an AIBS grant, not an NSF grant; can't have it both ways
 -Also comment that this model essentially privatizes government; a huge risk of opening that door.
 -Issue of fairness if some societies take the responsibility (which? how many participate, etc.); issue that most societies have neither the infrastructure nor lawyers for the compliance issues

 -Could some of the process be centralized, with AIBS, societies etc. and mandating that process by NSF-like
-?If we centralize with someone like AIBS runs, we as socieities could request/mandate the process to be NSF-like. fairness, equity, balance, etc. could be considered. 

 -DDIG discussions will continue throughout conference

-Meeting adjourned 12:50 pm
