SSB Council Meeting: June 23, 2017: Portland OR; 6:30 - 7:300 pm
  -scribe: DC Adams (EVP)

About 30 society members in attendance

### Minutes
1: Journal/Membership
 -Introduced Julia McDonnell, our OUP rep; mentioned student prices just made equal to lowest of tri-societies
 -Discussion of membership decline; consensus that this is in part due to oxford issues; need to encourage members to join; remind them of benefits; gift memberships mentioned (strategic planning committee will investigate); 
 -considerable discussion of why join a society; comments on 'transactional benefits' (reduced student meeting registration, awards, voting, sense of community, voting on decisions, etc.); also comments on being a member because society does good things (having a voice in society weighing in on major issues: biodiversity, planet, world policy, climate change, etc.); (much discussion here); could make meeting membership required for mid-year meeting registration; bring students to business meetings, etc.

 -Council initiated Strategic planning committee to investigate current issues: money, membership, journal; was mentioned that prior SPC existed; Scott Steppan will provide info to current group

2: 2018 Joint-ESEB meeting
 - Reminder to folks to submit symposia proposals so there will be spaces for SSB-type talks; registration also different; reminders have, and will continue to go out on this

3: DDIG update.
  -topic explored extensively in JC meeting, SSB council, ASN members meeting; lots of folks discussing; much discussion of what could be done; white papers with ideas are being circulated; google group replaceddig.org was established for those wishing to participate

4: Society finances
 -SSB is healthy financially; endowment growing steadily, and the interest is used for students; council investigating how to use increasing funds to benefit students and postdocs; some discussion of funding levels and length of eligibility (some of this discussion tied to DDIG discussion); discussion of increasing not only number of awards, but their amount

5: Other Business

 - Discussion on stand-alone meetings: process for proposing them, shifting to only January, etc.
 - Will be on mid-year agenda for council

5: OPEN DISCUSSION.
 -Stand alone meeting; discussion of formal process for proposing future venues; shifting to January
   - Will be taken up at next mid-year meeting
