SSB Council Meeting: June 27, 2017: Portland OR; 8:30 - 10:00 am
  -scribe: DC Adams (EVP)

### Actions taken
A: Communications chair will initiate remaining SSB EC emails, and include an 'SSBPolicy' email address
B: Adams will coordinate with SSE/ASN concerning proposals for joint student memberships and possible discounts
C: Adams and O'Meara will work with OUP to simplify Membership Renewal page
D: Adams will compile roster of past presidents and work with Hillis to initiate NAS 'feeder' committee
E: Grad. student reps on council will devise activities to heighten SSB Mixer


##### Minutes
1: Update on JMC (Kelly Zamudio)
 -2021 & 2022 locations: Albuquerque and then Athens GA; discussion of human moderators,
 -Remaining discussion on DDIG (those interested see: ReplacDDIG.org)
-large discussion about DDIGs.
  -anyone who wishes to participate in discussion go to replaceddig.org
-SSB could consider awards to substitute for DDIGs: eligibility already extended, could increase level of funding; perhaps initiate starter grants then a few larger awards 'Research Enhancement Grants' or 'SSB Future Leader Award'; Some concern of replacing functions/duties our Federal agencies should provide the scientific community; also concern of workload for Awards committee;
 -Perhaps partner with Illumina for some funding for student awards (Elizabeth Jockusch will follow up)
 -Idea floated to have tri-society panel to review any broader student grants that develop (Leslie Rissler willing to partake if societies go this route)


2: update on exec society emails for contacts:
 -Was some challenges in inter-society communication with joint statements; need a 'SSBpolicy' email address along with EC member addresses
 -Brian O'Meara will set this up once Google Suites comes on-line

3: Editorial Meetings (Tom Near)
 -was a Meet the Editors session with SB, AN, Evol, Heredity, Evol Ecol, Evol Letters; Future: arrange a meet the editors session (HE and some AEs) at OUP booth; is need to increase non North American presence; question on where European systematists are publishing; important to improve visibility for 2018 joint ESEB meeting


4: Joint student membership (Dean Adams)
 -SSE approached DCA concerning possibility for joint student membership and discounts; much discussion on options; should be all 3 societies, how discount applied (averaged across socities or discount on 2nd, 3rd only?); logistically difficult as the 3 societies all have different member management schemes; discount could be on meeting registration instead; match andcoo

** Council voted to have student member match lowest of tri-society ($20 presently)
** Council voted to initiate discussions on multiple student member discount possiblities, to be brought back to council once plan is formulated

-Discussion on cumbersome and option-laden membership page from OUP
** Adams and O'Meara will follow up with OUP to correct

5: New Business
 - Discussion of systematist presence in major societies (NAS, Am Acad Arts Sci, etc); nomination process convoluted and geographically-biased due to current memberships; Systematists also under-recognized for NAS awards; Proposed SSB committee to consider potential nominees to be passed on to current NAS systematist members;  should be past presidents of SSB

** Adams will compile roster of past presidents and work with Hillis to initiate committee

 - Discussion of society name and mission; considerable discussion; suggestion to have short mission statement/phrase under SSB on page

 -SSB mixer: discussion and ideas for how give more of a membership feel; information scavenger hunt for grads, some announcement/ poll: how many species have people described, who has largest phylogeny? etc.

** Grad student reps on Council will devise plan



@@@ Dave W
 -do we have virtual meeting mid-year.
 -can we get together a few months before meeting, b/c we sort things out and then too late
 -

 -Propose
 -* THIS YEAR CAN DO THIS IN OHIO STAND ALONE MEETING>  Future years, another virtual meeting. 

@@@@ FUTURE BUSINESS: discuss Timing of stand-alone meeting.
  -move to january? keep rotating,.


MOTION TO ADJOURN: 9:50 am.
