SSB EC mid-year meeting: Dec 18, 2017: virtual meeting
  -scribe: DC Adams (EVP)

##Summary of Action items as discussed below
A: Ask Burk whether member management system can provide efficient web interface for submission of award applications with attachments
B: Tom and Brian will coordinate numbers to publicize reduced handling time of journal
C: Dean will convey EC vote on member management to full council and request vote on move to Burk & Associates
D: Brian will send message to SSB members encouraging ESEB participation, and mention Mayr symposium
E: Discussion of diversity committee formation on agenda for summer meeting
F: Casey (with Dean) will work on verbiage for Constitution to clarify how in SSB negotiates contracts (who has authority to authorize, etc.)
G: Ad-hoc publishing committee will work up letter for Rob to convey to OUP for next contract. 


###Minutes
1: Awards (Tracy)
-needs to have budget further in advance
-Grad awards: $50K. Mini-ARTS: not clear how many to give yet, 33 applicants, probably ~$15K
-Postdoc awards may be given at random, and are on top of regular awards
-This year more Mayr finalists (14)
-Concern that mini-arts will bleed into 2018
   -It was noted that at last meeting, Awards was given mandate to expand, so should be fine

-One issue: Google forms requires applicants to have account, so currently using qualtrics (tied to Iowa State). Investigating other options (one is $10/month)
  -It was mentioned that our member management may be able to handle. Need to investigate
-Re budget: Let Casey know if it's >$30K above last year's


2: Communications (Brian) 
-Google suites up and running. accounts for officers set up for future use.
-Discussion of announcement and swag (sticker, ribbons, etc.) for student awardees. 
-Grant numbers from SSB they can cite us for money and track acknowlegments
-perhaps six month cap for getting award. 
-tweet all awards

3: EIC (Tom)
-Things going well on editorial side. 
-Number of submissions slightly above last year, though recall a dip over past few years. 
-Now 44 AEs; more women AEs
-Ongoing efforts for symposia and bundled paper themes

-Handling time is now much lower! Should emphasize this on social media etc. (Tom will coordinate with Brian)
-AE handling time bimodal: will share with AEs

4: EVP (Dean)
-Discussion of member management proposals
*-EC votes and approves (unanimously) that SSB goes with B&A. 
-DCA will forward motion and vote to full council

5: JMC (Kelly) 
-ESEB: some concern about lack of US applicants. Encouraging societies to remind members
*-Brian will send message to SSB members, and mention Mayr symposium

-Safe Evolution
-JMC working on code of conduct and harassment policies
  -SSB can and should consider for stand-alone meetings and beyond once JMC plan develops
-There is need of code of ethics within SSB beyond just meetings

-Recent issue concerning prior AE 
 -discussion on informing victim, prior AE, otherwise
-Was discussed with legal council: challenging as SSB had no prior policy in place, and SSB has no judicial power to ban prior AE from meeting
-Discussion of informing victim if prior AE registers for stand-alone; sending letter to prior AE, to victim?

-Consensus was have Brian communicate with victim, as they have made contact (convey sentiment of EC and broader context)

-Diversity committee: ASN and SSE have one: SSB does not. 
 *** Suggested that this be an item for summer meeting, and possibly form ad-hoc committee 

7: Treasurer (Casey)
 -no financial documents yet (too soon for year-end).  
* - Constitution unclear on how we execute contracts.  There is need to tighten this up (e.g., getting hotel rooms, etc.). Authority not delegated clearly on these issues. Make clear it is treasurer and others who have right to enter into contracts. 
***Casey and Dean will work on verbiage.
 
8: Publishing
-Received 3 bids
-Discussion of strengths/weaknesses of staying with, or moving from existing publisher
-On editorial side things with current publisher are going well
-Frustration has been with member management, and more recently web publishing issues (as extensively reported)

-Some concern of lack of publisher's ability to fix problems given outsourcing
-Could temporarily hire managerial assistance to document web problems and keep pressure on publisher (removing burden on SSB volunteers currently doing this)

-EC consensus to remain with publisher, but continue pressure to fix issues (or we leave after 2 year trial period)
*DCA and ad-hoc committee will work on email for Rob to convey to publisher and our terms (like what they are doing with editorial team, but things must change on the rest of we leave). 


***** Next meeting will be in-between stand-alone and ESEB.

